Albert Village Allotment Association - Rules of the Association

The Rules of the Association is not an independent document and should be read and considered in conjunction with the ‘Constitution’ and ‘Tenancy Agreement’

The Committee, or any person authorised by the Committee, on behalf of the members, will have the power to enter upon the allotments, at any time, for the purpose of carrying out repairs, inspecting the cultivation of the plots and consideration of remedial work or re-planning of the allotments, or for any other purpose that the Committee deems necessary.

Disputes arising between Members regarding any matter connected with the Association will be referred to the Committee. Any member who wishes to lay a formal complaint against another member of the Association concerning any matter arising within the confines of the Allotments or Woodlands must notify such a complaint, in writing, to the Secretary of the Association. The Committee’s decision is final.

No Member will sub-let their plot or any part thereof, without the express written permission of the Committee. No plots can be transferred to anyone else. Any members wishing to transfer from one plot to another must apply in writing to the Committee who will consider this in conjunction with the waiting list.

No Member will, without authority, trespass upon the plot of any other Member. This includes any children or animals, who must be supervised at all times and are the full responsibility of the accompanying member.

Members of the association are responsible for the behaviour of their visitors, guests or members of their family at all times when on the site.

Any person found stealing from another Member's plot may be reported to the appropriate authorities. The said Member will be subject to instant dismissal from the Association. In the event that the person concerned is not a Member of the Association, and has been found trespassing on the Allotments, or has committed theft or criminal damage then a report will be made to the appropriate authorities with a view to prosecution.

Each Member will properly cultivate their land using only organic methods and maintain adjacent paths and keep it in a condition to the satisfaction of the Committee (cultivated, neat & tidy, reasonably weed free etc.). Members failing to do so will be given four week’s notice, in writing, to improve their plot or requested to provide an explanation as to their failure to cultivate. Failure to respond to such notice and comply with the requirements may result in the Committee giving the Member notice to quit as per the Constitution, Tenancy Agreement and Rules of the Association.

The plot must organic in cultivation and encourage local wildlife where possible.

No member may plant any trees on their plot without the express written permission of the Committee. They also must be of dwarf variety.
Living hedges are not allowed to be planted on any plot.

All gates to the Allotments must be closed and locked at all times even if the plot holder is stopping for a short period.

Water should be used in moderation and not wasted. The Committee reserves the right to introduce a use of water or hose pipe ban if necessary. Any interference with the water supply may lead to immediate termination of Membership of the Association. The water will be turned off from November until March – These times may be extended or reduced by the Committee at any time and communicated to members in writing.

Garden rubbish generated upon a Member's plot, other than that retained as compost, must be removed from site. Tipping rubbish elsewhere on the Allotments or Woodlands is prohibited. Members leaving rubbish when vacating a plot may be charged for its disposal. The removal of soil from any part of the allotments is prohibited.

Bonfires are to be regulated by the following and require written permission from the Committee:
Bonfires should not inconvenience other Members of the Association or members of the public.
Only combustible garden waste from the allotments is to be burnt.
All plant material should be well dried to avoid unnecessary smoke pollution.
Plastic pots, bags and synthetic materials must not be burnt. This is an offence in law.
Fires should not be allowed to burn unattended and must be extinguished before leaving the site.

Reasonable consideration should be given to all Members of the Association at all times.

Dogs must be under strict control at all times and kept on a lead.

The keeping of livestock upon the Allotments or in the Woodlands is prohibited.

Any bees kept on site must be under the management of a professional beekeeper with written permission from the committee.

Buildings or structures of any kind are strictly prohibited without the express permission of the Committee. When permission is given, glass, bricks and mortar must never be used in construction and dimensions must not exceed those listed below or the member may be asked to remove the building/structure at their own cost:

Shed - No bigger footprint than 6 feet by 4 feet and no higher than 7 feet
Greenhouse - No bigger footprint than 6 feet by 4 feet and no higher than 7 feet. Glass is strictly prohibited – only plastics can be used for the panes.
Polytunnel - Subject to plot size.

The maximum structure size is:
Half Plot: 3m x 2m
Full Plot: 4m x 2m

Either a shed or polytunnel is allowed on half plots but not both.

Plots exceeding standard size: requests must be brought in writing to the Committee
for size approval.

The placement of all polytunnels must also be approved by the committee prior to installation to avoid shading neighbouring plots.

Fruit Cage - No bigger footprint than 24 feet by 9 feet and no higher than 7 feet.

No notices may be put up by members in the Allotments or Woodlands without the written permission of the Committee.

There is absolutely no vehicle access to the plots, anyone found to be driving across footpaths to approach the allotments may have their tenancy terminated with immediate effect.

All Members must abide with the foregoing rules at all times. Failure to comply with these rules, the Constitution or stipulations within the Tenancy Agreement may lead to the member concerned having their membership suspended or withdrawn.
